[Music]
what you want to really work on yourself
that deeply to process emotions like
fear and anger and on the other side of
it is love and joy how does that happen
the answer is it's a journey and my
journey is very different than what
someone else's Journey might be but the
important thing is to be willing to take
a step one step welcome to the art of
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease
foreign
[Music]
everybody I'm really excited today we
have a three-way conversation today this
is Joe and myself and joining us is
Stacy Brown Philpot she is the former
CEO of taskrabbit and a founding member
of the SoftBank opportunity fund how are
you doing today Stacy I'm good how are
you yeah I'm doing well and I'm excited
to try this this three-way
conversational format me too me too yeah
all right so tell us a little bit about
yourself and what brought you to this
work I
um came to this work really initially
not open-minded but eventually
open-minded I would say
um I grew up in Detroit Michigan and
grew up in a house of Independent Women
who taught me the importance of
Independence my parents got divorced
when I was very young and there were
four generations of women in the house
that basically taught me how to depend
only on myself in order to make things
happen and that has served me so well in
my career
what brought me to this work is that I
learned that while the things that
served me well in learning how to be
independent also didn't serve me well in
other areas which was learning how to
depend on other people
and when I realized I didn't spend a lot
of time waiting for other people to do
things for me I learned through this
work to get to the core of what that
looked like and it really centered
around abandonment and fearing being
abandoned because of things that
happened in my childhood so here I am
tell me a little bit more about about
that abandonment about how you came to
recognize that this was something for
you to for you to feel into and what's
one pivotal moment of transformation
where you started to work through this
experience in a different way the
abandonment it wasn't like all of a
sudden I realized oh my goodness I've
been abandoned I think what I realized
is that I compartmentalized a lot as a
leader and as a person and the
compartmentalization was a coping
mechanism for me to handle
my emotions and what I realized was that
I was trying to not show certain
emotions because when I did I was
abandoned by those emotions by those
people and over time and through work
through this work
I realize that the compartmentalization
had served me well in terms of being a
really good CEO who could operate well
and could get things done who could hire
good people and who could really just
muscle through success but I hid a lot
of how I truly felt about people and how
I wanted people to see me and especially
depend on them and so a pivotal moment
for me in thinking about what that
abandonment meant was just realizing
that my parents got divorced when I was
a kid and so I didn't grow up having my
dad around all the time and because of
that because he just wasn't around I
never knew how much
he mattered to me or I matter to him
and while he did lots of good things
like bring us Christmas gifts and Bring
Us toys and sometimes come see us on the
weekends
I never felt really the Love on an
ongoing basis that other friends that I
had growing up experienced and just
knowing that he mattered to me really
would have been everything for me and so
this year fast forward 40 something
years later
I had a conversation with my dad and I
went to Detroit this past July 2021 and
said I wanted to talk to him about my
childhood and
really open up
and I told him that because of how we
grew up I never
thought that I mattered because he was
not around
and it was a moment where we were going
to take a drive Brett and go and have
this conversation and we actually never
left the parking lot
because
he just opened up and both of us were in
tears just sharing and he said to me
you've always mattered to me and I don't
think I knew what I expected from that
conversation all I wanted him to know
was that how he made me feel but when he
said you've always mattered to me and in
fact there are some things that you did
when you were a kid that helped me
change my life for the better that I
never knew about that helped me see
not only can I just make this statement
to the person who I felt abandoned me
and just feel the release but also get
information
about what his experience was that just
totally flipped
everything I thought about what was
happening to me as a child and so that
pivotal moment for me was just a release
of like freedom
and
knowledge that
the one person I thought didn't care
about me as much actually really did and
it it changed my perspective on how I
saw basically everybody else
everybody else how'd that impact your
your life as as a leader and looking
back on your time as a CEO in the way
that you had just described being the
CEO who's just getting it done super
independent doesn't need anybody
how was that negatively impacting your
your business and your relationship with
your team and how much did you notice it
at that time and how much do you do you
notice it now I don't think I noticed it
that much at the time because it worked
and when I was leading the company and
now helping to run a venture fund and
serve on a number of boards
people valued my efficiency ability to
get things done and I'm pretty good at
talking to people and being empathetic
and understanding their perspective
but what I wasn't good at was really
being truly vulnerable and showing all
of who I am and so what happened is is
there were only glimpses and moments
where I would do that for example when
George Floyd was murdered the only thing
I can do or could do at that time was
show up as a black woman who was in pain
it didn't matter what title I had it
didn't matter nothing mattered in that
moment so I I could tap into that place
but I wasn't able to tap into it often
and frequently and when I did it was
often a very scary thing for me to do
and not a very easy thing for me to do
and what happened as you started doing
that more scary thing uh stepping into
stepping into who you are with
acceptance of that feeling of
Abandonment I felt
so much love
and that was joyful because
to really feel seen
was just amazing
and so to be able to stand up in front
of people and talk about who I really
was and to feel the shared empathy the
shared understanding the shared pain
Felt So Good
as a CEO sometimes you everybody wants
you to take care of them
and they come to you with like the
hardest problems the most complicated
problems the ones that have the least
amount of information to solve and we
take on that responsibility and we
forget that somebody needs to take care
of us
two and so who's gonna do that who's
gonna take care of us so showing up with
hey this is what this is my pain this is
what I'm dealing with
and I'm now going to see if you're gonna
take care of me
used to be a really scary thing to do
because when I did that it didn't happen
but it did and so I felt a sense of joy
and a sense of love and a sense of truly
being seen and in fact it translated
into a higher sense of commitment and
dedication to the company what we were
trying to create and more importantly to
themselves like I don't think it didn't
matter the people were more dedicated or
loyal to me what I really wanted was for
people to be more of who they were and
me being more of who I was allowed my
team and the people around me to be more
of who they are and I think that
mattered more than anything else that
seems like a common theme when people
have haven't avoided abandonment trauma
they'll they'll feel like others aren't
there for them even when they are
because they're just not letting it in
and something that you just described is
that having worked through this you want
people to be there for themselves and in
that way you're there for them even more
and the extent that they are with you
you you allow that in and allow that to
impact you and I'm curious to go back to
that moment with your father what led up
to this moment where after 40 some years
you were able to approach him to speak
about this became aware of of this
feeling that you had with him and then
approached him in such a way that you
had the conversation where you never
even left the parking lot and it was
just you know tears and heart opening
conversation wow well Joe hasn't said
anything yet
I'm just enjoying listening goodness
gracious
um but I I give him a lot of um credit
for
for pushing me to go deeper into
understanding myself and you know I've
learned that there are layers
of trauma that I've dealt with in layers
of Abandonment that I've dealt with but
at its core that was really it
um and so what what allowed me to to
realize that it was a journey my first
conversation with Joe was like I think I
have some daddy issues that I need to
work on that was like two and a half
years ago it was really like more
facetious and true at the same time but
it was just a recognition that I knew I
could be a better person I could show up
better as a as a mother as a wife if I
process some of the things that happened
to me as a as a child
and over the course of two years as I
unpacked you know what really was
holding me back and what I was fighting
for I think
I think you know I spent two years of
really working with Joe on
understanding why I was always trying to
prove something to somebody and fight
for something and I was the one who
would get out there like if we need to
take this mountain we will take the
mountain I'll be the first one up there
like you're coming with me and we're
gonna do whatever it takes to win
and I was always trying to prove
something and that that could translate
into ambition and so people saw that
ambition and said wow she's really
ambitious like we're gonna work with her
because we're gonna get there because
she wants to get there but underneath it
was this desire to prove
and this desire to fight and what I
realized was that the proof and the
fighting was something was underneath
that underneath that was this feeling
that I needed to prove something because
if I didn't I would be abandoned again
and again and again and
as I went back to the original source of
where that started that's really where
it started it is the case for me and I
know it's very cliche that the things
that happened to us at children often
shape who we are and that's ultimately
what happened so I had to now say well I
can't just worry about some manager that
I had who you know didn't promote me and
so they abandoned me because I didn't
get promoted right all these things go
back to abandonment at one point I had
to go back to the original source which
was the relationship with my father and
we had dad and I had developed a really
good relationship over the last 10 years
so we weren't at odds with each other we
didn't hate each other we loved each
other
and yet that conversation hadn't
happened and so I decided that this year
I wanted Tim to know
all of who I am because I had changed
and I wanted him to see me for who I
really was and in order for that to
occur I needed to say these words to him
it was so scary I wrote I had a script
I wrote it down I took many notes Joe
was laughing because he knows I
practiced
um I practiced all possible scenarios
like how this conversation could go it
could go really good it could be really
bad he could reject me again I don't
know what was going to happen but what I
did know was that I wanted to say it and
I became okay with any outcome
meaning if there was no watershed moment
if he did pretend like nothing ever
happened I became okay with that
possible outcome and so because I think
because I was okay with any outcome I
just freely spoke
and I spoke from a place of empathy
understanding but also wanting him to
know my truth and how I was feeling and
not expecting anything but wanting
an apology
and the first thing he said was I'm
sorry and I I just that was it so it was
wonderful yeah it's fascinating that
what you described there in this moment
of coming to him and sharing this you
know you had some fear you had a script
you were prepared in a way but also you
had done done the internal work so that
even if he did abandon you then then
that was an acceptable outcome and you
also allowed yourself to want the
connection with him
and having those two things at the same
time I see is really important here and
I'm curious how how having that when you
show up in your team when you show up as
a CEO
how does that interact with the history
that you had of showing up with a lot of
fight and with a lot of something to
prove
how does that the way that you showed up
with your father
impact the way that you show up with
others now it's very different now
um unfortunately we can't invest in
every company that we see with the
opportunity fund
but we invest in black latinx and Native
American Founders and
I want all of them to be successful
but we're not going to be the person who
the company that provides the capital
and so when we pass on a deal and it's
someone that I know
I talk about I want to stay connected
with you I want you to be successful and
here's why we're not going to invest
right now it's a very different
conversation
and almost always I the response that I
get is a thank you which is weird
because I'm basically saying we're not
going to give you money or someone on
our team has said we're not going to
give you money and then they want to
know why and they ask me and I tell them
and then they say thank you you're
abandoning them that's weird right but
but what they say thank you because they
appreciate the honesty
and unfortunately in the world of
venture capital A lot of times you get
ghosted they don't actually respond they
don't give you the truth and I can speak
from a place of Truth and Love And even
if that truth doesn't get the founder of
the outcome that they want it comes from
a place of love and it comes from a
place of wanting connection which I
think sets us apart as a fund but it's
very different from how I would have
gone into those situations in the past
you came into this work hesitantly and
with you know with some skepticism and
and just recently you you were talking
to a friend about the work and you said
to me something like I don't know she
probably thinks I'm crazy when I was
talking about the work and I just got an
email from her saying I talked to Stacy
I'm totally motivated when can we start
go go go go right so tell me about your
journey about accepting you know doing
the work it was feel crazy like and and
expressing that work to other people
like what is that
what has that been like for you
hard to describe because people will ask
me
who is Joe and then and also he's in the
coach but he's not like an executive
coach like most people have was he a
therapist he's not a therapist because
he's not licensed in anything like that
so he's just this person and so you
start with something like that and
everyone looks at you in a weird way
like what are we talking about here so
what I try to say is this working with
Joe changed who I am as a person and
he's helped me become a better person
and one of the reasons why is because
it's the work that I've put in and not
the work that he's done and so I told
this friend that the first time I had a
meeting with Joe I was like over it I
was like I'm not gonna do this I don't
have time for this and he was like okay
and so and that okay was like whoa he
didn't try to save me he didn't try to
keep me he basically was like if you
don't want to do the work yourself
okay if you do I'm here so it it was a
choice
to lean in
that had to be completely my own and
that was very different
and then I I remember Joe you may
remember this I asked you going into
2021 I was like I'm not really sure what
I'm gonna work on this year I've done so
much work in 2020 and you know there was
a pandemic there was a social distance
there was all sorts of stuff that
happened I feel like pretty good
until you said well what I do know is
that if you don't come up with something
that you want to work on this year you
won't
work on anything
and it was it was this moment of
realizing that I still had complete
ownership on how deep I wanted to go in
my own development and how much I wanted
to push myself and it was again my
decision
and when I tell people that it sounds
crazy because it's like what you want to
really work on yourself that deeply to
process emotions like fear and anger and
pain and hurt and abandonment and Trauma
and on the other side of it is love and
joy how does that happen
the answer is it's a journey and my
journey is very different than what
someone else's Journey might be but the
important thing is to be willing to take
a step one step on that journey and then
the next step on that journey and even
if it gets scary actually when it gets
scary that's when you really have to
take the step
which sounds crazy
yeah something really really interesting
there is that you described that before
in your life you were a fighter you
would really push you would
you were the CEO right you were the one
who was just going after it and pushing
yourself and then the way that you're
describing pushing now is a very
different kind of push and
the first kind of pushing is one if it's
coming from an abandonment wound that's
being avoided then is actually
abandoning yourself in in the driving
and in the pushing and I think this this
can occur often when people do self work
they'll push themselves without letting
themselves be ready for what they're
pushing themselves into and it's more of
an invitation and the way that you're
describing it now
is that you know you you see the
invitation you spoke with Joe Joe
gave you an invitation and you decided
how much you wanted to move into it and
in that way you were abandoning yourself
less than you previously had and this
process of going in and doing the work
isn't one of pushing yourself into it
but one of just letting yourself
do it letting yourself naturally follow
what's next for you
and have a question come up to work on
that's true and I like to say that I
don't have to prove
anything to anyone anymore and there's a
freedom that comes along with that
because I don't have to step outside of
myself I can just stay all of who I am
and show up with all of who I am and
whatever presents itself is what's there
there's an element of Comfort calm peace
that I have
now that I didn't have two years ago
three years ago or five years ago
looking back on yourself two three five
years ago how do you feel towards that
that version of yourself at that time I
love her
I love that little girl who was like sad
when her dog died you know who was 14
and
wanted a Coach bag and so said she was
gonna like make as much money as she
could so she can buy as many handbags as
she wanted who was you know terrified
to talk to her father and then she did
and who built a great company
and hired lots of people and motivated
and Inspire lots of other little black
girls to pursue careers in technology I
left all of who she was because I
couldn't be who I am
today if she had been who she was five
years ago I love her I keep her I don't
want to lose her she's like a part of me
one of the things that I get a lot when
I work with people particularly for the
first time is I get some sort of version
of
they see the thing and then they ask how
do I keep the thing like they see
through the Abandonment for instance and
then they're like the first thing is how
do I keep this recognition or how do I
stop acting like I was when I was in
abandonment right or some version of
like now that I see it what do I do
and I'm wondering what advice or what
thoughts do you have on that for those
people right because it's like so many
people are just like what do I do next
what do I do next what do I do next so
that I can be out of this emotional
state or so that I can not have this
pain in my life anymore
and it's it's something that I just
noticed doesn't come up very much with
us you're that's never the case it's
somehow you you see the realizations
differently so I was curious what's your
what are your thoughts there I have a
sense of awareness and
I'm more comfortable I think knowing
that I don't always have to feel
everything all the time but I know
over some period of time I'm a different
person today than I was
some time ago and so reminding myself of
that has really helped me
want to think about what could be next
I'm also a person of Faith Joe you know
I'm a Christian but you don't know me
but I'm a Christian and my faith has
really guided me
in throughout my life I mean God has
carried me at times when I couldn't
carry myself
he's been there for me when I didn't
think that I needed the Lord I prayed to
God for things that I've needed and he's
blessed me in so many ways and so I'm
grounded in that Faith Joe that helps me
know that even when I don't feel like
I'm making progress somewhere it's for a
reason too
and there's probably something on the
other side of that
that wall or that barrier or that
seeming obstacle that's gonna be okay
that's gonna be good and just sometimes
I gotta wait for it or sometimes I gotta
jump over it I just got to pray about it
you know so that that helps me
um sort of deal with the process of
doing the work I'm curious how your
relationship to your faith has shifted
from having done this work and how
how having something to prove or
abandonment might have shown up in your
relationship to your faith prior to
having these self-reflections
so much in so many areas it's
even in feeling abandoned
I always know God is with me and yet
it's not
easy to remember that truth when you're
in the moment I was diagnosed with
breast cancer and
um
found out about my diagnosis
when I was traveling I was traveling for
work I was in New York I was
by myself and
super scared didn't know what was going
to happen to me
call my mom cry she's like everything's
gonna be okay that's what a mom should
say like that's it she's like
everything's gonna be okay she's the
perfect mom in that moment called my
husband he was dealing with the kids I
didn't even tell him because I figured
you know
he's like trying to get the kids to
sleep I'm I'm traveling it's crazy so I
was like I'm not going to lay this news
on him in this moment right now
hung up the phone and my pastor called
me
and he said hey Stacy you know I'm just
checking in on you I know you had this
biopsy you're waiting on the results and
I don't know if you got the results yet
but I just wanted to call and see how
you're going how's it going check on you
and I literally just started weeping
because and I said hey I just you know I
told him and he prayed for me in that
moment and he said to me he said you
know you're gonna cry
and you're gonna be sad
but I want you to know that God is with
you and he's like and that's okay he was
like you're and I was like I'm by myself
I'm in this hotel and he's like just cry
all night just sit there
put on some church music if you want to
you know whatever makes you feel better
and he's like and I'll I'll call you
tomorrow
after he prayed with me so I sat I hung
up the phone I put on some music and I
just like sat in his corner and I just
cried
and cried and cried until I was done
and there was this emptiness that I felt
of like
wow
this is like the bottom of something but
I'm still being held and in that moment
of feeling like I was alone
and abandoned God was there with me why
did my pastor call me in that moment
like I knew that was something
so as I sat in that emptiness I realized
like I am never ever ever alone ever
because my God is always with me
and so when you ask about my faith I
always get emotional about this you ask
about my faith and abandonment I know
I'm never alone because I know I have my
faith and
that has shown up for me in so many ways
and yet
I still have what need to process it in
all aspects of my life
so I don't know if this is important for
the podcast but it was important for me
to tell the story yeah and I also just
love the the beauty of that story of
feeling your pain being there
you were with yourself as well yes it
wasn't just God with you it was also you
being with all of your pain until it had
been felt all the way through and then
what happened you you reached this this
point of emptiness and then and then
what I was empty and I felt truly held
and it was the moment that I realized
that in my life
I've always
felt like I was the one who could do it
myself and make it happen and in this
moment I couldn't I couldn't do it
myself because I was scared I didn't
know what was going to happen and I
truly had to depend on someone else in
this case my God to comfort me and the
Comfort came so it felt like this
blanket just came over me it was super
warm and cozy and cuddly
and I just relaxed into it and like fell
asleep that's what happened what
happened when you woke up next woke up
in the morning and was I had this sense
of
wow
all right I can do this and I needed
that sense because it was the opening of
the Nordstrom store in Manhattan the
grand opening
and I had to show up as a board member
and they like cut a ribbon and everyone
was cheering
so and I could show up and genuinely be
excited
about this opening
in the face of what just happened the
night before because I knew I knew God
had it I had it we had it it was gonna
be okay
and I'm so thankful to have my health
today so part of the question that I
still haven't fully groked is if you
were just to say how so there's the time
we've like when we first started working
together to
after the uh talk with your dad
how has if at all your relationship with
God changed I think they have a more
open relationship
prayer life is really about
what God wants for my life
what I want for my life it's like Mutual
and it's not from a you know please make
this happen for me it's more like
I want this if you want it it'll happen
very different it's very I feel like I'm
walking alongside
he's walking alongside with me all the
time
and constantly there so it was
conversational it's open it's it's not
this sort of hopeful thing it's more
like a a knowing
that I've got that relationship and it's
not ever going anywhere and I don't have
to worry about whether it's going to be
there or not it's just it's just there
and it feels very natural
and I love it so there's a whole bunch
of young CEOs out there whether they're
part of the opportunity fund or
otherwise
what is your advice or thoughts for them
about
doing
self-discovery work and business and
that like that intersection what do you
want to tell them how what gift would
you want to give them around this I
would want them to know that
part of becoming a CEO
or founding a company
requires a little crazy
because you're seeing the world the way
other people don't see it yet
and then you're trying to convince them
that this is the way the world should
operate
and that might feel like you're alone
and and so I would invite you to do some
self-discovery some learning to really
discover
what ground you what what's true for you
what keeps you
going what keeps you motivated
and share that with other people because
the more you open up about who you truly
are the more you continue to discover
who you truly are the more people will
want to support your vision and your
mission and your goals and all that
stuff none of that really matters unless
they see the human
and all of the human that you are that
would be my gift beautiful beautiful
thank you so much Stacy thanks for
joining us Joe oh total joy to be with
you both but Stacy oh just feels so good
to listen to you thank you thank you
thank you for having me thanks for
listening to the art of accomplishment
if you enjoyed what you heard today
please subscribe and rate US in your
podcast app we'd love your feedback so
feel free to send us questions or
comments you can reach out to us join
our newsletter or check out our courses
at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign